---
EEP: 2
Title: JSON Column Type
Author: dmikurube
Status: Accepted
Type: Standards Track
Published: 2023-02-21
---

Introduction
=============

This EEP describes the history and the design decisions of Embulk's `JSON` column type. It looks back the history, and the purpose the JSON column type was introduced for.

Then, it discusses the long-standing confusion by the past decision on the JSON column type, and the proposal to resolve the confusion through a long-term migration process.

Motivation
===========

Beginning of the JSON column type
----------------------------------

The JSON column type has been introduced in Embulk since v0.8.0 with the pull request: https://github.com/embulk/embulk/pull/353

The motivation of the JSON column type was to avoid losing information from data sources that provide schema-less data, and to cover flexible conversions from schema-less data records into schemaful data records by filter plugins. See also the related GitHub Issue at: https://github.com/embulk/embulk/issues/306

The original authors decided to represent JSON column values as `org.msgpack.value.Value` from [msgpack-java](https://github.com/msgpack/msgpack-java) at that time.

Representation of JSON column values
-------------------------------------

Using msgpack-java as the JSON column values has brought a long-standing confusion in Embulk, unfortunately. The JSON column type has been represented as msgpack-java's `Value` since its beginning while Embulk has never used any `MessagePacker` nor `MessageUnpacker` from msgpack-java. It has been there only for `Value` just to represent JSON-like data structures.

On the other hand, msgpack-java's `Value` and `MessagePacker`/`MessageUnpacker` are unsplittable. Once the Embulk core uses `Value`, `MessagePacker`/`MessageUnpacker` are involed together in the Embulk core while they are not used.

The confusion becomes clear when a plugin needs `MessagePacker` or `MessageUnpacker` like [`embulk-parser-msgpack`](https://github.com/embulk/embulk-parser-msgpack). Such a plugin depends on msgpack-java, which has been included in the Embulk core. The plugin could not use a later arbitrary version of msgpack-java by itself. Furthermore, the Embulk core could not upgrade msgpack-java casually by itself because a later version of msgpack-java may contain some potential incompatibility. It is the deadlocking dependency hell.

Having said that, msgpack-java could not be easily dropped from the Embulk core because `Value` has been used in the Embulk plugin SPI, for example, `void PageBuilder#setJson(Column, Value)` and `Value PageReader#getJson(Column)`.

The purpose of this EEP is to show the long-term migration process to get msgpack-java dropped from the Embulk plugin SPI.

Alternative of msgpack-java
==============================

New JSON value classes
-----------------------

To drop msgpack-java from the Embulk plugin SPI, Embulk anyway needs alternative classes to represent JSON values. This EEP proposes a brand-new set of such alternative classes at first.

It could be worth considering a different approach, without adding alternative classes. Java has no standard classes to represent JSON-like data structures, unfortunately, so some existing external library, such as [Jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson), [Gson](https://github.com/google/gson), or the [GlassFish JSON Processing](https://glassfish.org/) would be required. Such an external library would bring the same dependency hell. That's no choice.

Design of the new JSON values
------------------------------

First of all, the new JSON value classes would need almost the same features with msgpack-java's `Value`. Otherwise, it would be hard for plugins to migrate.

* `interface`
    * `JsonValue` as the base interface for any JSON value, corresponding to msgpack-java [`Value`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/Value.html)
        * All `JsonValue` implementations would be immutable. It also corresponds to msgpack-java [`ImmutableValue`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/ImmutableValue.html).
    * `JsonNumber` as the common interface for JSON numbers, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableNumberValue`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/ImmutableNumberValue.html)
* `class`
    * `JsonNull` for JSON `null`, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableNilValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableNilValueImpl.html)
    * `JsonBoolean` for JSON `true`/`false`, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableBooleanValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableBooleanValueImpl.html)
    * `JsonLong` for JSON integral numbers, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableLongValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableLongValueImpl.html)
        * The numbers are represented by Java primitive `long`, used also in `LONG` columns.
        * The class is named to be clear about its internal representation `long`, and to be consistent with `LONG` columns.
    * `JsonDouble` for JSON decimal numbers, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableDoubleValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableDoubleValueImpl.html)
        * The numbers are represented by Java primitive `double`, used also in `DOUBLE` columns.
        * The class is named to be clear about its internal representation `double`, and to be consistent with `DOUBLE` columns.
    * `JsonString` for JSON strings, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableStringValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableStringValueImpl.html)
    * `JsonArray` for JSON arrays, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableArrayValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableArrayValueImpl.html)
    * `JsonObject` for JSON objects, corresponding to msgpack-java [`ImmutableMapValueImpl`](https://www.javadoc.io/static/org.msgpack/msgpack-core/0.8.24/org/msgpack/value/impl/ImmutableMapValueImpl.html)

Second, method signatures of the [Java(TM) EE JSON Processing](https://javaee.github.io/jsonp/) (`javax.json`), or the [Jakarta EE JSON Processing API](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonp/2.0/) (`jakarta.json`), would be a good reference. They have been the semi-standard (not the de-facto standard though). They provide just interfaces. It would be reasonable to follow their method signatures, including their naming convention.

Note that the new JSON classes would not implement those `javax.json` or `jakarta.json` interfaces now. [Java(TM) EE has been transitioned to Jakarta EE, and their package names have changed.](https://blogs.oracle.com/javamagazine/post/transition-from-java-ee-to-jakarta-ee) The situation does not seem very stbale.

Last, the new JSON classes would not expect arbitrary extension by plugin developers. In other words, even if a plugin developer defines a new class implementing `JsonValue`, such as `MyJsonBigDecimal`, it would not work as the developer expects.

`BigDecimal` and `BigInteger`
------------------------------

One big consideration is JSON numbers. The JSON specification does not limit the range and precision of numbers, but at the same time, it also allows implementations to set limits. See [RFC 8259](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8259#section-6).

From Embulk's viewpoint, Embulk has had the `LONG` and `DOUBLE` coulmn types since its beginning, but no column types representing unlimited numbers. Unlimited numbers in JSON could cause another problem about interoperability with the existing `LONG` and `DOUBLE` columns. For example, [`embulk-filter-expand_json`](https://github.com/embulk/embulk-filter-expand_json) expands JSON fields into Embulk columns. How would it expand a big JSON integer into a `LONG` column?  It would be reasonable to limit its number representations to Java primitive `long` and `double`.

That being said, users sometimes want such a thing in the real world. Indeed, Embulk has received [such a request](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/issues/775) in the past. The new JSON values would leave some room for future extension with `BigInteger` and `BigDecimal`, such as `JsonBigInteger` and `JsonBigDecimal`.

Migration
==========

This proposal eventually brings incompatibility in the Embulk plugin SPI. The migration would go lazily with a long-term migration period. The steps would be similar to the `TIMESTAMP` column type migrated from `org.embulk.spi.time.Timestamp` to `java.time.Instant`.

In Embulk v0.10 (to be at v0.10.42)
------------------------------------

1. Upgrade `msgpack-core` to v0.8.24 from v0.8.11
    * This v0.8.24 is the latest version of `msgpack-core` v0.8.
    * Upgrading from v0.8.11 to v0.8.24 is considered compatible.
2. Add the new JSON classes under `org.embulk.spi.json`
3. Modify the new JSON classes to represent their inner values by msgpack-java
    * These classes should keep behaving the same.
4. Update `Page`, `PageBuilder`, and `PageReader` to represent JSON values by the new JSON classes, along with :
    * Adding new Embulk plugin SPI methods with the new JSON classes in parallel to the existing methods
        * Existing :
            * `org.embulk.spi.Page`
                * `Page setValueReferences(List<org.msgpack.value.ImmutableValue>)`
                * `List<org.msgpack.value.ImmutableValue> getValueReferences()`
                * `org.msgpack.value.ImmutableValue getValueReference(int)`
            * `org.embulk.spi.PageBuilder`
                * `void setJson(int, org.msgpack.value.Value)`
                * `void setJson(Column, org.msgpack.value.Value)`
            * `org.embulk.spi.PageReader`
                * `org.msgpack.value.Value getJson(int)`
                * `org.msgpack.value.Value getJson(Column)`
        * New :
            * `org.embulk.spi.Page`
                * `org.embulk.spi.json.JsonValue getJsonValueReference(int)`
            * `org.embulk.spi.PageBuilder`
                * `void setJson(int, org.embulk.spi.json.JsonValue)`
                * `void setJson(Column, org.embulk.spi.json.JsonValue)`
            * `org.embulk.spi.PageReader`
                * `org.embulk.spi.json.JsonValue getJsonValue(int)`
                * `org.embulk.spi.json.JsonValue getJsonValue(Column)`
        * The old methods would be forwarded to the new methods.
    * Annotating `@Deprecated` on the older existing SPI methods
    * Updating `DynamicColumnSetter` to use the new SPI methods
    * Updating `PagePrinter` to use the new SPI methods
    * Updating `Pages` to use the new SPI methods

During Embulk v0.11
--------------------

Embulk plugins would start using the new JSON classes and the new SPI during Embulk v0.11.

At some point after Embulk v1.0
--------------------------------

The following "incompatible" changes would be in place eventually at some point after Embulk v1.0.

* Remove the older msgpack-java-based SPI methods
* Revert the internal representation of the new JSON classes back without msgpack-java
* Remove the `msgpack-core` dependency from the Embulk core

Plugin SPI Definitions
=======================

This section explains the additional Embulk plugin SPI definitions, along with the reason why they are designed so.

Immutability
-------------

The JSON classes are all immutable.

Their instances are conveyed from plugins to plugins, and referred from varied code. They would bring confusions if they are mutable, then modified by someone.

In addition, the major use of msgpack-java `Value` in Embulk has been `ImmutableValue`, which is immutable.

`final`
--------

The JSON classes are all `final`.

The JSON classes would not expect arbitrary extension by plugin developers, as mentioned above. Getting the classes all `final` would discourage such arbitrary extention.

Equality
---------

The JSON classes define their equality ([`Object#equals`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Object.html#equals-java.lang.Object-)) only with the officially-declared JSON classes. It means that `JsonArray` would never be "equal" to `MyJsonArray` that has the equal elements.

The JSON classes would not expect arbitrary extension by plugin developers, again, as mentioned above. The strict equality would discourage such arbitrary extention.

Java `null`
------------

The JSON classes do not accept any Java `null` when instantiating.

Null-safety would help developers to process JSON values, for example in `switch-case` with JSON value types. JSON `null` should be `JsonNull.NULL`, not Java `null`.

Literals with `toJson`/`toString`
----------------------------------

`JsonDouble`, `JsonLong`, and `JsonString` have an optional parameter with `#withLiteral(..., String literal)`. This optional `literal` is only to store "the original notation of the value in the original JSON representation". It does not affect any equality defition. It affects only the `#toJson()` method to stringify the JSON value.

The `#toString()` methods stringifies a JSON value based on their interpreted content: `double` for `JsonDouble`, `long` for `JsonLong`, and a "decoded" `String` for `JsonString`.

On the other hand, `toJson()` methods stringifies a JSON value based on `literal` if they have. For example, `1.2345678901234567890123456789` in JSON does not fit fully in `double`, then its interpreted `double` content would be somehow rounded. But, `JsonDouble` can be instantiated like `JsonDouble(someDoubleNumber, "1.2345678901234567890123456789")`. Such a `JsonDouble` instance would return `"1.2345678901234567890123456789"` for `#toJson()`.

Reference size in `Page`
-------------------------

The JSON classes provide their approximate reference size presumed to occupy in `Page` and `PageBuilder`.

`PageBuilder` is designed to flush when it receives a certain amount of record so that one `Page` would not consume a large amount of memory by getting so huge. The JSON values, however, have not been accounted properly with msgpack-java-based `Value`s. Any `Value` has been accounted just as fixed 256 bytes.

It would be a good chance to start accounting better with the new JSON classes. A better estimation would help keeping `Page` performant in the Java heap.

Note that accounting the size cannot be "accurate", then it would be just approximation. For example, it is really difficult (or impssible) to tell how many bytes are consumed in the Java heap by a `String`. It would be just better to flush more frequently for bigger JSON value objects, less often for smaller JSON value objects, but no infinite accumulation even for empty JSON value objects.

Definitions
------------

### interface `JsonValue`

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

public interface JsonValue {

    // Corresponding 1:1 to implementation classes, such as JsonNull, JsonString, and JsonObject.
    public static enum EntityType {
        NULL,
        BOOLEAN,
        LONG,
        DOUBLE,
        STRING,
        ARRAY,
        OBJECT;

        public boolean isNull();
        public boolean isBoolean();
        public boolean isLong();
        public boolean isDouble();
        public boolean isString();
        public boolean isArray();
        public boolean isObject();
    }

    EntityType getEntityType();

    boolean isJsonNull();
    boolean isJsonBoolean();
    boolean isJsonLong();
    boolean isJsonDouble();
    boolean isJsonString();
    boolean isJsonArray();
    boolean isJsonObject();

    JsonNull asJsonNull();
    JsonBoolean asJsonBoolean();
    JsonLong asJsonLong();
    JsonDouble asJsonDouble();
    JsonString asJsonString();
    JsonArray asJsonArray();
    JsonObject asJsonObject();

    // Returns the approximate size of this JSON value in bytes presumed to occupy in Page as a reference
    int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    String toJson();
}
```

### interface `JsonNumber`

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

import java.math.BigDecimal;
import java.math.BigInteger;

public interface JsonNumber extends JsonValue {
    // Returns true if the JSON number is integral
    boolean isIntegral();

    // Returns true if the JSON number is integral, and in the range of byte, short, int, or long
    boolean isByteValue();
    boolean isShortValue();
    boolean isIntValue();
    boolean isLongValue();

    // Returns the byte, short, int, long, or BigInteger representation of the JSON number
    // -ValueExact() throws ArithmeticException when the JSON number is not integral, nor in the range of each type
    byte byteValue();
    byte byteValueExact();
    short shortValue();
    short shortValueExact();
    int intValue();
    int intValueExact();
    long longValue();
    long longValueExact();
    BigInteger bigIntegerValue();
    BigInteger bigIntegerValueExact();

    // Returns the float, double, or BigInteger representation of the JSON number
    float floatValue();
    double doubleValue();
    BigDecimal bigDecimalValue();
}
```

### final class `JsonNull`

`JsonNull` does not provide any constructor nor any creator method. It is a singleton, whose instance is availble only via `public static JsonNull NULL` or `public static JsonNull of()`.

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

public final class JsonNull implements JsonValue {
    // The singleton constant of JsonNull
    public static JsonNull NULL;

    // Returns the singleton instance NULL
    public static JsonNull of();

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonNull asJsonNull();
    @Override int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    // Returns just "null"
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns just "null"
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true only when otherObject is exactly NULL defined above
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns 0 always
    @Override public int hashCode();
}
```

### final class `JsonBoolean`

`JsonBoolean` does not provide any constructor nor any creator method. It has only two singleton-like instances available via `public static JsonBoolean FALSE/TRUE` or `public static JsonBoolean of(boolean)`.

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

public final class JsonBoolean implements JsonValue {
    // The singleton constants of JsonBoolean
    public static final JsonBoolean FALSE;
    public static final JsonBoolean TRUE;

    // Returns the singleton FALSE or TRUE
    public static JsonBoolean of(boolean value);

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonBoolean asJsonBoolean();
    @Override public int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    // Returns boolean true or false accordingly
    public boolean booleanValue();

    // Returns just "true" or "false" accordingly
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns just "true" or "false" accordingly
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true only when otherObject is exactly equivalent TRUE or FALSE defined above
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns 1231 for TRUE, and 1237 for FALSE, which came from Boolean#hashCode()
    @Override public int hashCode();
}
```

### final class `JsonLong`

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

import java.math.BigDecimal;
import java.math.BigInteger;

public final class JsonLong implements JsonNumber {
    // Returns a new JsonLong instance
    public static JsonLong of(long value);

    // Returns a new JsonLong instance with a literal
    public static JsonLong withLiteral(long value, String literal);

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonLong asJsonLong();
    @Override public int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes()

    @Override public boolean isIntegral();
    @Override public boolean isByteValue();
    @Override public boolean isShortValue();
    @Override public boolean isIntValue();
    @Override public boolean isLongValue();

    @Override public byte byteValue();
    @Override public byte byteValueExact();
    @Override public short shortValue();
    @Override public short shortValueExact();
    @Override public int intValue();
    @Override public int intValueExact();
    @Override public long longValue();  // This would return the exact long value of this JsonLong
    @Override public long longValueExact();  // This would return the exact long value of this JsonLong
    @Override public BigInteger bigIntegerValue();
    @Override public BigInteger bigIntegerValueExact();

    @Override public float floatValue();
    @Override public double doubleValue();
    @Override public BigDecimal bigDecimalValue();

    // Returns the literal when provided via withLiteral, or the stringified long value otherwise
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns the stringified long
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true when otherObject is also JsonLong, and has the same long value
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns a hash code based on the long value, without the literal considered
    @Override public int hashCode();
}
```

### final class `JsonDouble`

Not-a-Number (`NaN`) and the infinity are declined as `JsonDouble`. When [`Double.isNaN(double)`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Double.html#isNaN-double-) or [`Double.isInfinite(double)`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Double.html#isInfinite-double-) returns `true`, `JsonDouble.of` and `JsonDouble.withLiteral` throw [`ArithmeticException`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/ArithmeticException.html).

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

import java.math.BigDecimal;
import java.math.BigInteger;

public final class JsonDouble implements JsonNumber {
    // Returns a new JsonDouble instance
    public static JsonDouble of(double value);

    // Returns a new JsonDouble instance with a literal
    public static JsonDouble withLiteral(double value, String literal);

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonDouble asJsonDouble();
    @Override public int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    @Override public byte byteValue();
    @Override public byte byteValueExact();
    @Override public short shortValue();
    @Override public short shortValueExact();
    @Override public int intValue();
    @Override public int intValueExact();
    @Override public long longValue();
    @Override public long longValueExact();
    @Override public BigInteger bigIntegerValue();
    @Override public BigInteger bigIntegerValueExact();

    @Override public float floatValue();
    @Override public double doubleValue();  // This would return the exact double value of this JsonDouble
    @Override public BigDecimal bigDecimalValue();

    // Returns the literal when provided via withLiteral, or the stringified double value otherwise
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns the stringified double value
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true when otherObject is also JsonDouble, and has the same double value
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns a hash code based on the double value, without the literal considered
    @Override public int hashCode();}
```

### final class `JsonString`

`JsonString.of` and `JsonString.withLiteral` do not automatically apply `String#intern()` for the specified `String`. Developers may or may not want to call `String#intern()` by themselves to save the Java heap.

`JsonString` has three methods to return `String`. Their difference follows.

* `getString`: Returns the "decoded" internal `String` representation as-is, which is the same as `value` specified for `JsonString.of` and `JsonString.withLiteral`
    * Ex. `JsonString.of("foo\n", "\"foo\\u000a\"").getString()` returns `"foo\n"`.
* `toString`: Returns the quoted `String` of the internal representation, which is valid as a JSON string, and whose forbidden characters are "encoded" for JSON
    * Ex. `JsonString.of("foo\n", "\"foo\\u000a\"").toString()` returns `"\"foo\\n\""`.
* `toJson`: Returns the `literal` as-is if it has, or the same as `toString` otherwise
    * Ex. `JsonString.of("foo\n", "\"foo\\u000a\"").toJson()` returns `"\"foo\\u000a\""`.

```java
package org.embulk.spi.json;

import java.util.Objects;

public final class JsonString implements JsonValue {
    // Returns a new JsonString instance
    public static JsonString of(String value);

    // Returns a new JsonString instance with a literal
    public static JsonString withLiteral(String value, String literal);

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonString asJsonString();
    @Override public int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    // Returns the decoded String content value
    public String getString();

    // Returns the decoded String content value as CharSequence
    public CharSequence getChars();

    // Returns the literal when provided via withLiteral, or the String "stringified" for JSON (valid as a quoted JSON string) otherwise
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns the String "stringified" for JSON (valid as a quoted JSON string)
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true when otherObject is also JsonString, and has the same String content value
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns a hash code based on the String content value, without the literal considered
    @Override public int hashCode();
}
```

### final class `JsonArray`

```java
public final class JsonArray extends AbstractList<JsonValue> implements JsonValue {
    // Returns an empty JsonArray instance
    public static JsonArray of();

    // Returns a JsonArray instance with the specified JsonValues
    public static JsonArray of(JsonValue... values);

    // Returns a JsonArray instance with the specified JsonValues
    public static JsonArray ofList(List<? extends JsonValue> values);

    // Returns a JsonArray instance with the specified JsonValues as-is as its internal array representation
    public static JsonArray ofUnsafe(JsonValue... array);

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonArray asJsonArray();
    @Override public int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    @Override public int size();
    @Override public JsonValue get(int index);

    // Returns the JSON-compliant string representation of this JSON array, whose elements are stringified also with `#toJson()`
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns the JSON-compliant string representation of this JSON array, whose elements are stringified also with `#toString()`
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true when otherObject is also JsonArray, and has the same JsonValues in the same order
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns a hash code based on the element JsonValues, and their order
    @Override public int hashCode();
}
```

### final class `JsonObject`

The keys of `JsonObject` are Java `String`s.

The keys are not general `JsonValue` because JSON does not accept non-string keys. The keys are not `JsonString` because it can be just an overhead, and the Java/Jakarta JSON Processing APIs define `JsonObject` as `Map<String, JsonValue>`.

```java
public final class JsonObject extends AbstractMap<String, JsonValue> implements JsonValue {
    // Returns an empty JsonObject instance
    public static JsonObject of();

    // Returns a JsonObject instance with the specified JsonValues, which are sequenced as [ key, value, key, value, key, value, ...]
    public static JsonObject of(JsonValue... keyValues);

    // Returns a JsonObject instance with the specified key-value entries
    public static JsonObject ofEntries(Map.Entry<String, JsonValue>... entries);

    // Returns a JsonObject instance with the specified key-value entries
    public static JsonObject ofEntriesWithJsonStringKeys(Map.Entry<JsonString, JsonValue>... entries);

    // Returns a JsonObject instance that contains the same mappings with the specified map
    public static JsonObject ofMap(Map<String, JsonValue> map);

    // Returns a JsonObject instance that contains the same mappings with the specified map
    public static JsonObject ofMapWithJsonStringKeys(Map<JsonString, JsonValue> map);

    // Returns a JsonObject instance with the specified keys and values as-is as its internal array representation
    public static JsonObject ofUnsafe(String[] keys, JsonValue[] values);

    // Returns a JsonObject.Builder instance
    public static Builder builder();

    public static class Builder {
        public JsonObject build();
        public Builder put(String key, JsonValue value);
        public Builder put(JsonString key, JsonValue value);
        public Builder putEntry(Map.Entry<String, JsonValue> entry);
        public Builder putEntryWithJsonStringKey(Map.Entry<JsonString, JsonValue> entry);
        public Builder putAll(Map<String, JsonValue> map);
        public Builder putAllWithJsonStringKeys(Map<JsonString, JsonValue> map);
    }

    // Returns a new Map.Entry
    public static Map.Entry<String, JsonValue> entry(String key, JsonValue value);

    // Returns a new Map.Entry
    public static Map.Entry<JsonString, JsonValue> entry(JsonString key, JsonValue value);

    @Override public EntityType getEntityType();
    @Override public JsonObject asJsonObject();
    @Override public int presumeReferenceSizeInBytes();

    @Override public int size();
    @Override public Set<Map.Entry<String, JsonValue>> entrySet();

    // Returns an array of keys and values, which are sequenced as [ key, value, key, value, key, value, ...]
    public JsonValue[] getKeyValueArray();

    // Returns the JSON-compliant string representation of this JSON object, whose elements are stringified also with `#toJson()`
    @Override public String toJson();

    // Returns the JSON-compliant string representation of this JSON object, whose elements are stringified also with `#toString()`
    @Override public String toString();

    // Returns true when otherObject is also JsonObject, and has the same key-value pairs, without considering its order
    @Override public boolean equals(Object otherObject);

    // Returns a hash code based on the key-value pairs
    @Override public int hashCode();
}
```

Backwards Compatibility
========================

* The Embulk core should keep compatibility with older plugins until msgpack-java and related methods are removed at some point after v1.0.
* A newer plugin that uses the new JSON classes would not work with the Embulk core older than v0.10.41.
* The Embulk core after msgpack-java and related methods are removed would stop working with an older plugin that calls the msgpack-core-based methods.

Copyright / License
====================

This document is placed under the [CC0-1.0-Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/deed.en) license, whichever is more permissive.
