---
EEP: 4
Title: System-wide Configuration by Embulk System Properties and Embulk Home
Author: dmikurube
Status: Final
Type: Standards Track
Created: 2023-06-16
---

Introduction
=============

Real operations of Embulk often need system-wide configurations, not just per-plugin user configurations. Embulk had "System Config" for that purpose, but the System Config did not cover sufficient use-cases.

The new system-wide configuration mechanism, "Embulk System Properties", has been introduced along with a new concept of the "Embulk Home" directory through Embulk v0.10. This EEP explains the motivation to migrate System Config to the Embulk System Properties, and the design of Embulk System Properties and Embulk Home.

Background
===========

System Config
--------------

Embulk had had a system-wide configuration mechanism called "System Config" since its early age. System Config, however, had some limitations. It did not apply to everything. On the other hand, it was unnecessarily powerful at the expense of its coverage.

System Config was based on `org.embulk.config.ConfigSource`. `ConfigSource` was managed in [Guice](https://github.com/google/guice), a dependency injection container, along with all other global objects. As a result, System Config could be used only after initialization of the Embulk process. This limitation narrowed down the coverage of System Config.

System Config had a powerful representation thanks to Jackson-based `ConfigSource`. It was not just a string-based configuration, but it had a tree structure like JSON. However, the power of the representation was not utilized. The actual System Config values were just strings because they were often configured through command-line options.

Use-cases of System-wide Configurations
----------------------------------------

Let's see some actual use-cases of system-wide configurations.

### Logging

Logging-related configurations are a typical use-case of system-wide configurations. In System Config, Embulk had configurations for the log level and the log file path.

It, however, restricted logging in Embulk. System Config was available only after some initialization, then logging was available only after the initialization. Messages before the initialization had to be printed by `System.out` or `System.err` out of the control of the SLF4J logging framework.

### Plugin installation directories

Obviously, the directories to load plugins must be specified before loading plugins. They were configured by environment variables `GEM_HOME` and `GEM_PATH`, the same as Ruby's standard gem loading. They could be overridden by System Configs `gem_home` and `gem_path`.

These environment variables sometimes confused users because some users had their own `GEM_HOME` and `GEM_PATH` for their Ruby environments, not for Embulk. They could be mixed up easily.

Embulk had some workarounds to mitigate the confusion, including the override by System Config, but the workarounds caused another confusion. Command-line options were required to override them. The plugin installation directories should have been configured by Embulk's own system-wide configurations, not by configurations that conflict with existing common conventions. It is the same for the new Maven-formed plugins.

### JRuby

JRuby is global in Embulk, then JRuby configurations would be done system-wide, not per plugin. Such configurations included, for example, JRuby's optimization/debug modes.

### Guess

Guess plugins do not have detailed configurations for each. They are configured only by whether to use the guess plugin or not. For example, the `csv_all_strings` guess plugin has been bundled in Embulk, but not enabled by default. To use the `csv_all_strings` guess plugin, it needs to be configured globally. Users needed to add `"csv_all_strings"` in the System Config `guess_plugins`.

### Performance

Some performance-related options, especially parameters across plugins, are system-wide. For example, `max_threads`, `min_output_tasks`, and `page_size` were configured in System Config.

Requirements of the New System-wide Configuration
==================================================

We wanted an alternative system-wide configuration because System Config was not functioning effectively. The requirements would be as below.

* It can be loaded from a file, not only from command-line options.
* It can be configured from the very beginning of an Embulk process.
* A deterministic and user-friendly rule should identify the configuration file on the file system.
* A deterministic and user-friendly rule should identify the plugin installation directories on the file system.
* It does not need such a powerful representation. A simple string-string key-value mapping would be sufficient.

Embulk System Properties
=========================

The new system-wide configuration is designed as below to satisfy the requirements above.

* The new system-wide configuration is based on [`java.util.Properties`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Properties.html), named "Embulk System Properties". `Properties` is not very rich, indeed. But, `Properties` can be loaded from a file only with the Java standard class library at the beginning of a Java process.
* A new concept of the "Embulk Home" directory is introduced. The Embulk Home directory takes over the older `~/.embulk/` directory that has contained plugin installations. The Embulk Home directory includes the Embulk System Properties file, and continues to have plugin installations by default.
* The Embulk Home directory and the Embulk System Properties are configured by a deterministic rule at runtime, based on the command-line options, the environment variables, the Embulk System Properties file, and the current working directory.

The details follow.

Setting the Embulk System Properties
-------------------------------------

The Embulk System Properties are set by the following methods, in priority from top to bottom.

1. The command-line option `-X`, for example, `-Xproperty=value`.
2. The Embulk System Properties file in the [Java `.properties` format](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Properties.html). The location of the Embulk System Properties file is identified based on the Embulk Home directory.

Embulk Home
------------

The Embulk Home directory is determined at runtime, by the following rule, in priority from top to bottom.

1. If an Embulk System Property `embulk_home` is set by the command-line option `-X`, it is the Embulk Home directory.
    * It would be an absolute path, or a relative path from the current working directory.
    * Ex. `java -jar embulk.jar -Xembulk_home=/var/tmp/foo run ...` (absolute path)
    * Ex. `java -jar embulk.jar -Xembulk_home=.embulk2/bar run ...` (relative path)
2. If an environment variable `EMBULK_HOME` is set, it is the Embulk Home directory.
    * It must be an absolute path.
    * Ex. `env EMBULK_HOME=/var/tmp/baz java -jar embulk.jar run ...` (absolute path)
3. If neither 1 nor 2 matches, the Embulk Home directory is determined by searching from the current working directory as follows.
    * The search starts from the current working directory, moving one by one toward the parent.
    * In each directory, look for a directory, whose name is `.embulk/`, and which contains a regular file named `embulk.properties`.
    * If such a directory `.embulk/` is found, it is the Embulk Home directory.
    * The search stops at the home directory if the current working directory is under the user's home directory (identified by the Java property `user.home`).
    * Otherwise, the search continues to the file system root directory.
4. If none of 1 to 3 matches, `~/.embulk/` is the Embulk Home directory unconditionally.

Once the Embulk Home directory is determined, the file `embulk.properties` directly under the Embulk Home directory is loaded as Embulk System Properties. Note that it does not override the Properties by the `-X` command-line options.

Then, at last, an Embulk System Property `embulk_home` is overridden with the absolute path of the Embulk Home directory.

Plugin installation directories
--------------------------------

The plugin installation directories are the directories which Embulk loads plugins from. They are determined along with identifying the Embulk Home directory by the following rule, in priority from top to bottom.

`gem_home` and `gem_path` are used for RubyGems-style plugins, in the same way as `GEM_HOME` and `GEM_PATH` of the official RubyGems. `m2_repo` is used for Maven-style plugins.

1. If Embulk System Properties `gem_home`, `gem_path`, and/or `m2_repo` are set by the command-line option `-X`, they are the plugin installation directories for each.
    * They would be absolute paths, or relative paths from the current working directory.
    * Ex. `java -jar embulk.jar -Xgem_home=/var/tmp/bar gem install ...` (absolute path)
    * Ex. `java -jar embulk.jar -Xm2_repo=.m2/repository run ...` (relative path)
2. If Embulk System Properties `gem_home`, `gem_path`, and/or `m2_repo` are set in the `embulk.properties` file, they are the plugin installation directories for each.
    * They would be absolute paths, or relative paths from the Embulk Home directory.
3. If environment variables `GEM_HOME`, `GEM_PATH`, and/or `M2_REPO` are set, they are the plugin installation directories for each.
    * They must be absolute paths.
    * Ex. `env GEM_HOME=/var/tmp/baz java -jar embulk.jar gem ...` (absolute path)
4. If none of 1 to 3 matches, the plugin installation directory for RubyGems-style plugins is determined to be `lib/gems/` directly under the Embulk Home directory, and the plugin installation directory for Maven-style plugins is determined to be `lib/m2/repository/` directly under the Embulk Home directory.

Finally, the Embulk System Properties `gem_home`, `gem_path`, and `m2_repo` are overridden with the absolute paths of the determined directories for each. `gem_path` would be empty if not explicitly set.

On the other hand, environment variables `GEM_HOME`, `GEM_PATH`, and `M2_REPO` are not overridden. They are simply ignored if 1 or 2 above matches.

Notes
======

The rule to determine the Embulk System Properties file and the Embulk Home directory is deterministic, but not very simple. Embulk should log how they are determined so that users can easily know their misconfigurations.

Copyright / License
====================

This document is placed under the [CC0-1.0-Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/deed.en) license, whichever is more permissive.
