---
EEP: 13
Title: Logging and SLF4J
Author: dmikurube
Status: Final
Type: Standards Track
---

Logging is important and complicated
=====================================

Logging is important. It is impossible for users and developers to investigate a runtime problem without appropriate logs.

Embulk is a framework that runs various plugins developed by different developers. It needs to provide a common logging mechanism for plugins so that users don't have to configure logging for each plugin. Imagine a case where Plugin A uses Log4j 1.x, Pluing B uses Apache Commons Logging, Plugin C uses Java standard's logging (`java.util.logging`), and Plugin D uses Log4j 2.x via SLF4J. It would be virtually impossible for users to control logging from each plugin.

This EEP explains the common logging mechanism in Embulk.

History of logging in Embulk
=============================

Embulk has been using SLF4J for logging since [Embulk v0.1.0](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/blob/v0.1.0/build.gradle#L92) while the first logging driver behind SLF4J was Log4j 1.2.17. Plugins were expected to use SLF4J's [`org.slf4j.LoggerFactory`](https://www.slf4j.org/api/org/slf4j/LoggerFactory.html) to create a logger for themselves. The default logging driver was replaced from Log4j to Logback in [Embulk v0.6.12](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/releases/tag/v0.6.12).

* [Add Embulk.logger (embulk/embulk#200)](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/pull/200)

Prior to replacing Log4j 1.x with Logback, [Embulk v0.4.0](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/releases/tag/v0.4.0) started providing the SLF4J logger via `org.embulk.spi.Exec.getLogger`. The intent seemed to be to allow replacement of the logging driver implementation via dependency injection.

```java
package org.embulk.spi;

import org.slf4j.Logger;
// ...

public class Exec
{
    // ...

    public static Logger getLogger(String name)
    {
        // Returns a SLF4J Logger instance generated for "String name".
    }

    public static Logger getLogger(Class<?> name)
    {
        // Returns a SLF4J Logger instance generated for "Class<?> name".
    }

    // ...
}
```

However, this design was not very good. SLF4J itself is a "facade" to allow replacement of the logging driver implementation. `Exec.getLogger` just sits on top of the SLF4J replacement for the same purpose. Building a roof atop the roof, or gilding the lily, makes the abstraction more complicated, and spoils the existing advantages of SLF4J without adding any benefits. Also, all plugin code that logs with `Exec.getLogger` had to be tested under the `Exec` environment. This required complicated initialization in each test code and discouraged testing in plugins.

A similar point is also discussed in SLF4J.

> Let Wombat be a software library with very few dependencies. If SLF4J is chosen as Wombat's logging API, then a new dependency on _slf4j-api.jar_ will be added to Wombat's list of dependencies. Given that writing a logging wrapper does not seem that hard, some developers will be tempted to wrap SLF4J and link with it only if it is already present on the classpath, making SLF4J an optional dependency of Wombat. In addition to solving the dependency problem, the wrapper will isolate Wombat from SLF4J's API ensuring that logging in Wombat is future-proof.
>
> On the other hand, any SLF4J-wrapper by definition depends on SLF4J. It is bound to have the same general API. If in the future a new and significantly different logging API comes along, code that uses the wrapper will be equally difficult to migrate to the new API as code that used SLF4J directly. Thus, the wrapper is not likely to future-proof your code, but to make it more complex by adding an additional indirection on top of SLF4J, which is an indirection in itself.
>
> [Frequently Asked Questions about SLF4J: In order to reduce the number of dependencies of our software we would like to make SLF4J an optional dependency. Is that a good idea?](https://www.slf4j.org/faq.html#optional_dependency)

[Embulk v0.9.14](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/releases/tag/v0.9.14) then deprecated `Exec.getLogger`. Plugins are expected to use SLF4J's `org.slf4j.LoggerFactory` directly to create a logger for themselves again.

* [Silence LoggerProvider, and configure Logback only when Embulk is executed from CLI (embulk/embulk#1079)](https://github.com/embulk/embulk/pull/1079)

Other logging frameworks
=========================

Historically, the Java eco-system has had several logging mechanisms, including open-source frameworks, such as [Apache Log4j 1.x](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.x/) and [Java's standard logging API (`java.util.logging`)](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/logging/Logger.html). Some libraries used Log4j 1.x for their own logging. Other libraries used `java.util.logging` for their own logging. Mixed logging mechanisms caused a lot of confusion in the Java eco-system.

The concept of a "logging facade" has emerged to separate "the API for the code that wants to log its own logs" from "the actual logger that outputs the delegated logs to a location configured by the application". The former is called the logging facade, and the latter is called the logging driver. With the logging facade concept, common libraries can only depend on a logging facade, while applications can choose their preferred logging driver. [Apache Commons Logging](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-logging/) and [SLF4J](https://www.slf4j.org/) are examples of logging facades.

SLF4J has been the de facto standard logging facade, especially in the Java open source eco-system, since the days when the Embulk project started. It has been developed by the same author as Log4j 1.x, with a lot of experience and knowledge about logging. [Logback](https://logback.qos.ch/) is a logging driver to be coupled with SLF4J, also by the same author.

The Embulk project sees no reason to move away from SLF4J as of 2024. Changing the logging facade would have a huge impact on plugins, not just the Embulk core. SLF4J (and Logback) has done a very good job, and is well maintained at least as of 2024.

The first version of [Apache Log4j 2](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/) was released in 2014, but it is important to note that Log4j 1.x and 2 are completely different. The original author of Log4j 1.x is not involved in Log4j 2, and the APIs are incompatible. Log4j 2 is also known to have caused the [Log4Shell](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/security.html#CVE-2021-44228) vulnerability. It would not make sense to change Embulk's common logging mechanism to Log4j 2.

SPI and class loading
======================

SLF4J, as the common logging facade for Embulk plugins, is considered to be a part of the Embulk plugin SPI, and needs to be loaded in Embulk's top-level class loader. Therefore, `slf4j-api` is intentionally included in the dependencies of `embulk-spi` to be referenced by every Embulk plugin and loaded in the top-level class loader. This is also discussed in [EEP-7: Core Library Dependencies](./eep-0007.md) and [EEP-9: Class Loading, and Executable JAR File Structure](./eep-0009.md).

If a dependency library of an Embulk plugin logs its own log via another logging library, such as Log4j 1.x, the plugin has to replace it with a corresponding SLF4J bridge, such as [`log4j-over-slf4j`](https://www.slf4j.org/legacy.html#log4j-over-slf4j), by itself. Otherwise, logs from the library would be out of Embulk's control.

On the other hand, Logback is not included in the dependencies of `embulk-spi`. Any plugin should not depend on the logging driver implementation. Although Logback is still loaded in the top-level class loader as of Embulk v0.11, this is not guaranteed for the future. Plugins should expect that Logback may be hidden behind a sub class loader, or replaced to another logging driver.

Future extensions
==================

This section discusses possible extensions about logging for the future.

Per-plugin logging drivers
---------------------------

As of Embulk v0.11, the Logback instance behind SLF4J is the common logging driver for all loaded Embulk plugins. This has worked fine enough, but users sometimes wanted to customize logging on a per-plugin basis.

For example, some users wanted to set a higher log level for one of the loaded plugins, while leaving other loaded plugins untouched. This cannot be realized only by logger names. Plugin A and Plugin B may use the same dependency library D, and users may want to look into logs from the library D only from Plugin B. Only logger names (typically class names) cannot segregate Plugin A and Plugin B.

In the future, we may consider extending the logging driver handling for such a case. There can be several approaches to implement this.

Reporter: per-purpose loggers
------------------------------

Logging has multiple purposes and criteria, and preferred destinations for each. For example, users may want to store security-related logs in a secure storage, send deprecation notices to administrators, alert on urgent messages to a pager or a real-time team chat, collect unsuccessful input data (such as unexpected format in a CSV file) in a queryable repository to try again later.

For such use-cases, we have thought about a per-purpose multi-channel logging mechanism. An Embulk plugin would get different logger instances per purpose, such as a logger for security logs, another logger for urgent messages, and the default logger for ordinary logs. Embulk users would configure their Embulk runs to switch the log destinations per purpose. For example, security logs for a particular security service, urgent messages for a pager, and ordinary logs for [Fluentd](https://www.fluentd.org/), for example.

The log destinations would be implemented as yet another plugin mechanism, which was internally called "Reporter Plugins" just for reference.

Copyright and License
======================

This document is placed under the CC0-1.0-Universal license, whichever is more permissive.
